<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Overview -- /ISO</title>
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="icon.ico" type="image/x-icon">
</head>
<body>

    <h1>ISO work?</h1>

    <p>mskuhn@immd4.informatik.uni-erlangen.de (Markus Kuhn)</p>
    <p>14 Aug 91 12:59:27 GMT</p>
    <p>CSD., University of Erlangen, Germany</p>
    <br>

    <code>Newsgroups: comp.mail.multi-media</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>mskuhn@immd4.informatik.uni-erlangen.de (Markus Kuhn) writes:</code>
    <br>
    <code>>There is an OSI protocol called "group communication" in development</code>
    <br>
    <code>>at the International Standards Organisation (ISO). [...]</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>I got a lot of mail, asking for further information. The only</code>
    <br>
    <code>publications, I've found about these efforts so far are articles</code>
    <br>
    <code>from</code>

    <pre>
        <code>Research into Networks and Distributed Applications,</code>
        <code>R. Speth (Editor), Elsevier Science Publishers B.V.</code>
        <code>(North-Holland), (c) ECSC,EEC,EAEC, Brussels and</code>
        <code>Luxembourg, 1988.</code>
    </pre>

    <code>It contains reports from the AMIGO and COSMOS teams.</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <code>Jacob Palme, a member of the ISO/CCITT study group ist regularly posting
        short summeries from the study group meatings in comp.protocols.iso.x400. 
        I've copied parts of some of them below.</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <code>I am _very_ interested in other information and publications about
        ISO group communication. Do you have any pointers?</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Markus</code>

    <p>---------------------------------------------------------------------------</p>

    <code>From: JPALME@qz.qz.se (Jacob Palme QZ)</code>
    <br>
    <code>Date: 13 Mar 91 04:45:42 GMT</code>
    <br>
    <code>Newsgroups: comp.protocols.iso.x400</code>
    <br>
    <code>Subject: Report from X.400 development group meeting February 199</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <code>X.400 development group notes</code>

    <p>=============================</p>

    <code>The joint ISO/IEC (JTC 1/SC 18/WG 4), CCITT (Study Group</code>
    <br>
    <code>question 15) for further development of the X.400/MOTIS</code>
    <br>
    <code>standard for electronic mail met in Wollongong,</code>
    <br>
    <code>Australia, February 13-22, 1991.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>These are my personal notes from the meeting, no</code>
    <br>
    <code>official minutes.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>[...]</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Group communication</code>
    <p>-------------------</p>

    <code>The group communication subgroup has specified a general</code>
    <br>
    <code>information model for group communication and an</code>
    <br>
    <code>abstract service definition for computer conferencing.</code>
    <br>
    <code>The work on mapping computer conferencing on the general</code>
    <br>
    <code>information model is not yet finished. Future work</code>
    <br>
    <code>includes finishing this mapping, further work on the</code>
    <br>
    <code>distributed architecture and development of ASN.1 and</code>
    <br>
    <code>protocols.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Not yet clarified issues are whether to only use the</code>
    <br>
    <code>master-shadow technique for updating, whether to</code>
    <br>
    <code>represent links as separate link objects or not, how to</code>
    <br>
    <code>name contributions.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>A main issue in the group communication group is still</code>
    <br>
    <code>whether to produce a special protocol for computer</code>
    <br>
    <code>conferencing, or only produce a general protocol for</code>
    <br>
    <code>group communication and map computer conferencing on the</code>
    <br>
    <code>general protocol.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Another main issue is how to obtain downwards compati-</code>
    <br>
    <code>bility with X.400 (88). This might be possible by using</code>
    <br>
    <code>some clever, but possibly unintuitive, coding of group</code>
    <br>
    <code>communication contents transported via MTS.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Murray Turoff help us with Group Communication?</code>
    <p>----------------------------------------------</p>

    <code>We heard rumours that the U.S. intended to send Murray</code>
    <br>
    <code>Turoff, the man who invented computer conferencing, as a</code>
    <br>
    <code>representative to future Study Group I/Question 15</code>
    <br>
    <code>meetings. This is a very happy rumour, if it is true. I</code>
    <br>
    <code>have for several years tried to persuade Turoff to</code>
    <br>
    <code>participate in this work. There may be some difficulties</code>
    <br>
    <code>however, if Turoff comes in as a new participant so late</code>
    <br>
    <code>in the work. Will he want to redo everything we have</code>
    <br>
    <code>done before he starts to participate?</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>From: JPALME@QZ.qz.se (Jacob Palme QZ)</code>
    <br>
    <code>Date: 1 Jul 91 16:54:28 GMT</code>
    <br>
    <code>Newsgroups: comp.protocols.iso.x400</code>
    <br>
    <code>Subject: ISO/CCITT X.400 group report</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Notes from the joint ISO/CCITT meeting on X.400 development</code>
    <p>===========================================================</p>

    <code>Ottawa, Canada, June 1991.</code>
    <br>
    <code>These are my personal notes, no official minutes.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>[...]</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Group communication</code>
    <br>
    <code>-------------------</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>The group communication subgroup decided tentatively to split</code>
    <br>
    <code>its future standards into two different standards:</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>(a) A general group communication model.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>(b) A basic computer conferencing model.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Neither will be ready very soon. Possibly, they might be</code>
    <br>
    <code>ready for CD ballot in 1993. CD ballot is the first time a</code>
    <br>
    <code>new standard proposal is sent out to solicit comments. CD</code>
    <br>
    <code>means Committee Document, and is followed by a DIS (Draft</code>
    <br>
    <code>International Standard) and finally an IS (International</code>
    <br>
    <code>Standard).</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>These CD ballots will not include support for advanced group</code>
    <br>
    <code>communication tasks such as voting and joint editing. Such</code>
    <br>
    <code>supports will probably not be ready for CD ballot until 1995.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>In the Group Communication subgroup, Murray Turoff, one of</code>
    <br>
    <code>the world's foremost experts on computer conferencing,</code>
    <br>
    <code>participated for the first time. This means that much time</code>
    <br>
    <code>was spent aligning our terminology ( = learning to understand</code>
    <br>
    <code>each other) and finding similarities and differences in our</code>
    <br>
    <code>models.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>The major unresolved differences were:</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    
    <code>(a) Turoff wants to name contributions relative to the</code>   
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; conference, while our previous work has planned for</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; conference-independent naming. A consequence of this</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; is that our previous model allows for the same contri-</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; bution to be sent simultaneously to several conferences.</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; With Turoff's model, a contribution will always be sent</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; to one major conference, but links to it can be set</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; up from other conferences.</code>
    <br>
    <br>


    <code>(b) Turoff wants to handle membership lists as explicit</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; objects, while we previously planned for such lists</code>
    <br>
    <code> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; to be derived from sets of membership links.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>[...]</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>Next study period coming up</code>
    <br>
    <code>---------------------------</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>The next CCITT study period is soon coming up, so proposals</code>
    <br>
    <code>for issues to be handled in the messaging standards group</code>
    <br>
    <code>during the next study period should be input to study group</code>
    <br>
    <code>VII or to VII/Q.18 soon now.</code>
    <br>
    <br>

    <code>[...]</code>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    <br>
    
    
    
    

    <code>---</code>
    <br>
    <code>Markus Kuhn, Computer Science student -- University of Erlangen, Germany</code>
    <br>
    <code>X.400: G=Markus;S=Kuhn;OU1=rrze;OU2=cnve;P=uni-erlangen;A=dbp;C=de</code>
    <br>
    <code>I'net: mskuhn@immd4.informatik.uni-erlangen.de</code>
    <br>
    <br>
        
</body>
</html> 